All right, so
we're gonna keep on going here.
And this is the part of the list or
a part of the class where we're gonna do
a little bit of comparing and contrasting.
So let's think about the usability
of an array versus a linked list.
Something that's really nice
about an array is you get in
to see accessing, right?
0,1, 2, it's fast, right?
You're able to just set any value.
The understanding of what is actually
happening underneath the hood is also
pretty straightforward, right, you just
allocate the memory, however you do it.
And then you can just access that and
you set those values.
The memory is understood based on
the type that you have casted to.
There you go, very simple.
Obviously, some of the problems with
it is that there is no literal insert,
there's only right.
And so that causes problems.
You can't really insert a value into
an array without actually writing
the four loops manually to shift
everything over, then put in your value or
unshift everything and write over
your value if you were to delete.
And so it does cause it to
be a bit more difficult.
At timelines, arrays are really nice.
It's over one, everything, right?
If you want to write over a value,
it's over one.
If you want to get a value, it's over one.
It's fantastic, but, again,
there's a bit of a problem just
with the usability of it all.
So I did wanna kind of point this out
which is it which is interesting.
So one thing that's unique about an array
is that you obviously allocate this all
upfront.
Meaning that if you want to
potentially to store up to 1000 items
you're gonna have to allocate
all that memory upfront, right?
Yeah, so you're gonna have to have
1000 items worth of memory created and
then you may use however
much you are going to use.
Maybe you'll use all thousand, maybe
you'll only use a few of them, right?
It's a little bit different.
Whereas a linked list, if you do allocate,
or if you create a length list,
it has nothing to begin with.
When you insert something,
it only creates a single containing node.
If you insert two things it
has to containing nodes and
that's it, so
the memory usage is more optimized, but
there is a difference of
runtime cost there, right?
With an array the memory has already
been retrieved, it is already there, so
you can easily use what you have.
So it tends to have really great
performance, the constancy that is there,
just as smaller now, you could obviously
create some sort of object pool,
hold on to all the deleted nodes.
So that way you're not creating a bunch
of new ones ways to speed up a list.
But still, you are creating a containing
node, you're setting up links,
it's a little bit more
cumbersome than say an array.
One thing that's nice about an array or
a linked list, though, is just always will
use less memory, but the usability of
a list is a little bit different, right?
If you wanted to get
an item out of the list,
you have to traverse each item
in the list until a you find it.
So it's like always a linear search.
There is no such thing as
a binary search on a linked list.
You can't hop into the middle,
you have to walk the whole thing.
So linear search is really your only
option on the linked list, which does make
it a bit unfortunate of a data structure
when it comes to that type of operation.
So typically, if you need to scan a list
or hop into a list of random access,
you'd want to use something
more like an array.
If you want to be able to just push and
pop from either the head or the tail,
you tend to want to be able
to use something like a list.
There's a trade off,
there's an intentional trade off
you should make when deciding this.
So a good example of this is say
like an a sync request queue.
Say on your front end,
you don't want to have more than five
network operations happening at one point.
For whatever reason,
you've decided this is the case, well,
then you're gonna have these
promises that are generated.
They go off, but you only want five
of them active at any one point,
that means you're gonna have
to pull off the front and
you're able to push onto the back as new
ones come in and as old ones complete.
So you have this whole problem of a queue,
but
you don't want to be using an array if
it's a really highly used one because now
you're shifting all these indices
around using a JavaScript array.
It's not gonna perform very good,
it seems like it's a bad idea.
So it's good to know what you have and
when you want to use some something.
Always play that over in your head.
Is there any questions on usability of
these two maybe in JavaScript land it's
a little bit less apparent just because
it's just you just have brackets?
>> How would you traverse a linked list or
would you just not even try?
[LAUGH]
>> So how would you traverse a linked
list here?
I'm gonna go back to the code and
we'll just, oopsies,
let's go to doubly linked list.
So if I were to create this thing,
right, I'm just gonna go fast,
you don't have to follow
along on this one.
Let's just pretend we have this beautiful
thing right here that has a value T,
do that and preve.
What am I doing?
There we go, awesome.
So we have this thing that
would be our node, right?
I hate that, I always hated that.
And let's pretend we wanted
to do like say a get, right?
Let's go like this,
a private head is a node team.
So I won't implement all these
operations we'll just do
you know we'll just do this
right just odd length = 0.
Why not do all that stuff?
So if we were wanna do a let's just say
a get operation on a linked list, well,
what do we have to do?
We'd have to first go,
let curr = this.head, right?
We are now at our head, right?
We have this item,
then we could go for (let i = 0.
I have to be less than index, and
there has to be something there, right.
So in case we tried to
grab outside of the array,
we could do a length check right
here if we really wanted to, but
again, it just makes it, it's just it
completes goofy for TypeScript, right.
So now that we're here, we can just
go current=current.next, right?
So we literally walk
forward one at a time.
So there is no simple way to get there.
We just literally have to walk it.
That is why it's considered a linear
operation cuz you have to walk it.
Then at that point,
we can just do the old curr value, right?
Awesome, we have now successfully just
wrote git at a specific index for
a linked list.
So not too hard, but at the same time,
you can see why this is like
a very inefficient operation.
If you had a big list that would
obviously just destroy performance.